README.md, before:

[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/typhonius/acquia_cli.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/typhonius/acquia_cli)
# Acquia Cli

## Pre-installation
1. Ensure that you have downloaded the Drush site aliases for Acquia.
1. Copy the `example.acquiacli.yml` file to your project root and name it `acquiacli.yml`.
1. Add your Acquia email address to the `acquiacli.yml` file.
1. Add either your [CloudAPI private key](https://accounts.acquia.com/account/security) (preferred) or Acquia password to the `acquiacli.yml` file.

Alternatively, run `./bin/acquiacli setup` (or `./vendor/bin/acquiacli setup` when used as a dependency in another project) which will ask for your credentials and automatically create this file.

## Installation
1. Run `composer install`

## Usage/Examples
````
# Show which sites you have access to.
./bin/acquiacli site:list

# Show detailed information about servers in the prod environment (assuming sitename of prod:acquia obtained from site:list command)
./bin/acquiacli environment:info prod:acquia prod

# Copy the files and db from alpha to dev for testing new code
./bin/acquiacli preprod:prepare prod:acquia alpha dev

# Deploy the develop-build branch to the test environment and run all config update steps
./bin/acquiacli preprod:deploy prod:acquia test develop-build
````

## Creating a Phar
A phar archive can be created to run Acquia Cli instead of utilising the entire codebase. Because some of Acquia Cli relies on user configuration of email/password, it is currently most appropriate to allow users to generate their own phar files inclusive of their own configuration.

1. Download and install the [box project tool](https://github.com/box-project/box2) for creating phars.
2. Follow the Getting Started section above to download and configure Acquia Cli.
3. Run `box build` in the directory that Acquia Cli has been cloned and configured in. This will use the packaged `box.json` file to create a phar specifically for Acquia Cli.
4. Move acquiacli.phar to a where it will be used. acquiacli.phar contains your secret email and password information as well as the code required to run Acquia Cli. The phar is now a customised and standalone app.

Commit message:

Explains configuration in more detail.

README.md, after:

[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/typhonius/acquia_cli.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/typhonius/acquia_cli)
# Acquia Cli

## Pre-installation
1. Ensure that you have downloaded the Drush site aliases for Acquia.
1. Run `composer install`

## Installation/setup
1. Copy the `default.acquiacli.yml` file to your project root and name it `acquiacli.yml`.
1. Add your Acquia email address to the `acquiacli.yml` file.
1. Add either your [CloudAPI private key](https://accounts.acquia.com/account/security) (preferred) or Acquia password to the `acquiacli.yml` file.

Alternatively, run `./bin/acquiacli setup` (or `./vendor/bin/acquiacli setup` when used as a dependency in another project) which will ask for your credentials and automatically create this file.

## Configuration
The Acquia Cli tool users cascading configuration on the users own machine to allow both global and per project credentials and overrides as needed.

Acquia Cli will load configuration in the following order with each step overriding matching array keys in the step prior:

1. Firstly, default configuration from `default.acquiacli.yml` in the project root is loaded.
1. Next, if it exists, global configuration from `~/.acquiacli/acquiacli.yml` is loaded.
1. Finally, if it exists, an `acquiacli.yml` file in the project root will be loaded.

The global and per project files may be deleted (manually) and recreated with `./bin/acquiacli setup` whenever a user wishes to do so.

## Usage/Examples
````
# Show which sites you have access to.
./bin/acquiacli site:list

# Show detailed information about servers in the prod environment (assuming sitename of prod:acquia obtained from site:list command)
./bin/acquiacli environment:info prod:acquia prod

# Copy the files and db from alpha to dev for testing new code
./bin/acquiacli preprod:prepare prod:acquia alpha dev

# Deploy the develop-build branch to the test environment and run all config update steps
./bin/acquiacli preprod:deploy prod:acquia test develop-build
````

## Creating a Phar
A phar archive can be created to run Acquia Cli instead of utilising the entire codebase. Because some of Acquia Cli relies on user configuration of email/password, it is currently most appropriate to allow users to generate their own phar files inclusive of their own configuration.

1. Download and install the [box project tool](https://github.com/box-project/box2) for creating phars.
2. Follow the Getting Started section above to download and configure Acquia Cli.
3. Run `box build` in the directory that Acquia Cli has been cloned and configured in. This will use the packaged `box.json` file to create a phar specifically for Acquia Cli.
4. Move acquiacli.phar to a where it will be used. acquiacli.phar contains your secret email and password information as well as the code required to run Acquia Cli. The phar is now a customised and standalone app.
